# Thoughts and Feedback for the 5-22-26 Patch

## General/Basekit

I think that the health changes are being extremely overshadowed by the Soul Urn changes. its not the most crazy/impactful change but any change to health and scaling effects TTK. With this change being a pure number rather than a %. All the low health heroes are now weaker due to them losing "more" health. This is probably because they want more high burst characters to be more squishy.
The guardian and camp/breakable *box* change are indicative of them wanting to speed up the game. making guardians both take more damage and breakables take longer so spawn mean they want us to go push lanes more instead of run "box routes"
Tho it was an obvious change them adding that you can't backdoor shrines was a good health change.
To summarize most of the changes is that they nerfed in-combat movement to allow better punishing for people found out of position while also removing a few vents to make intentional macro and positioning more important. They also added changes to make the game faster since people were complaining that games were taking way too long in general. Especially at lower ranks where people struggle to find consistent pushes.

The changes to the Medic Trooper were a very obvious change. The Medic Trooper was designed in most MOBA's to be a sustain tool to not miss waves, not a tool to heal large chunks of your health mid combat. The Damage Reduction, Bullet Velocity, and Knockup changes are, i think, intuitively good changes to the game. Specifically speaking, % damage reduction is very strong and the ability to stack them additively almost always breaks something somewhere or at the very least creates unfun game experiences that may be both unhealthy for player experience or game health.

The Investment changes are, in my opinion, good for build health, variety and furthers proof that they want to speed up the game by making power available with less money invested. I think it also makes certain spikes easier to hit to newer players who are buying things at pseudorandom so they are less punished for not understanding the game at the level that higher level players do

## Items

I think its best to start off with the new item. This item is very strong. it gives specific supports like Doorman, Rem, and Paige an entry level item for an item the are likely are going to buy. For other non supports with the buffs to the "Shielding" items. Grit is just a strong early game buy that turns into an actual item. Either Shielding or reactive. Idk if its intended or not but Rem can use Grit on ally's with Tagalong.

Instead of talking about everything individually because that would take forever. I will just discuss the general important things to note and the top winners/loser of each category

### Gun

I genuinely don't know where to start with this category. The simple is this category got a lot of buffs. Some of which I personally don't understand how was decided. A lot of the gun buffs came in one of two forms. Small increase in numbers/small added innate bonus or Item that was too much of a commitment to buy has components that can be upgraded. The more i look at the patch the more i notice how much gun got buffed this patch. It wasn't a particular item buff but rather they made every gun item feel better and or easier to get and work together. With every item either building from something you'd likely want to buy or having small benefits here and there and give the item more value is good. For example Fleetfoot now granting 6% weapon damage or sharpshooter having a constant 10% weapon damage benefit. I think the main takeaway from this isn't the buffs themselves but rather we have a better understanding of the game dev philosophy moving forward. They sped up the game and since gun struggles in a faster environment due to how it scales they are buffing both investment spike thresholds and gun items to better fit in the faster paced environment they envision for the game. 26/53 of the gun items were nerfed

Big Winners: Tesla/Capacitor, Mystic Shot, Alchemical fire, Shadow Weave, Cultist Sacrifice,

Big Losers: None.... seriously. the biggest nerf we got was a 1 second recharging rush change and the biggest % loss was a 3% change to silencer and slowing bullets.

### Vitality

Vitality's biggest changes were to their early game items. Notably Extra Regen got a rebalance to be less effective in fights but more effective while roaming. Rite got better scaling to make it slightly more beneficial in both during and post lane phase *before its sold*. With also Grit being added to the pool of early game items to buy for laning purposes. I do think with the nerfs to healing troopers and extra regen with the buffs to rite and addition to Grit. They want to make health a more difficult and important resource to manage.
The nerfs to health with the innate health buffs they gave vitality items makes me think they want to increase the number of items bought in this category. currently this category is like a 4.8k/7.2k spike with nothing else.
The mid game for Vitality got some interesting changes. Most of them being a bunch of small number buffs. the exceptions being both Shielding items getting a very strong buff of giving 18% resistance to their respective shield and being able to be built off a T1 item. Guardian ward also getting rebalanced to be less spammable but stronger. the window of opportunity/strength of its individual use is higher with the downside of getting it a quite a bit less often during lane. For late game it was mostly either small buffs or items that had/received components got the innate effects of said components

Big Winners: Weapon Shielding, Spirit Shielding, Healing Booster, Return Fire,

Big Losers: Resto Locket... I think im noticing a pattern within this patch. I'll talk more about it in my conclusion

### Spirit

Egg got buffed in a meta where throwing is favored...

Spirit also somehow came out of this with overall buffs. as in... there was 0 nerfs in the spirit category. Debatably Arctic Blast but i consider that a rekitting than a nerf. Rusted Barrel is like just an insane tech item early game. Characters like Rem and Kelvin who might end up buying disarming anyways can just buy this in lane to not lose lane. Some characters who are primarily gun but want a 4.8k spirit spike or characters with a flexible spirit spike can also just get this. Rusted giving a big debuff on the damage type you'll mostly betaking during lane, only costing 800, and giving 60 health is really good.It also upgrades into one of the best shutdown items for M1 characters. That said item also just got a buff. Bullet resist Shredder now has innate weapon damage so the item fits better into its own niche. Spirit snatch also got like a 40% buff to its effectiveness.

Big Winners: Egg :), Bullet Resist Shredder, Spirit Snatch, Rapid Recharge?, Focus Lens

Big Losers:... There was 0 nerfs. Like actually 0 nerfs to this category. Unless you count Arctic Blast losing its damage amp.

## Heroes
To make things easy to read I will give each hero their own little section and talk about them!

### Abrams
All of his changes came from the form of his Infernal Resilience (3) and Seismic Impact (4) getting some changes. His Rekit of having less regen but more melee lifesteal is the devs saying. He's a character thats more similar to Billy not Victor. Also 1 point to gain 200 Health in the early game is extremely strong. Especially with the Medic trooper changes. His Ult changes also make him feel like he's intended to be more like a Billy Silver character rather than a Billy Victor.Which I think is healthy overall. Giving him also some more difficult decision early game with what abilities to upgrade also means we will likely/hopefully different builds and build variety from this.

### Apollo
MELEE APOLLO IS ON THE MENU GUYS GALS AND NON-BINARY PALS. RIPOSTE POINT AND CLICK ADVENTURE GAME
The regen nerf is like kinda big. Along with him losing his best escape tool *Riposte (2)* Not only did Riposte lose its escape capabilities it just doesn't trigger off 2 relatively common damage types. It still keeps usefulness in being a free Counterspell. It just isn't Counterspell + Warpstone. Also Flawless Advance (3) got a 10% nerf. which also means that all range upgrades on Flawless Advance (3) got worse. I think these changes are good. Apollo has like infinite movement in his kit already with his.... everything. This also solves an issue to him which was Slowing Hex not turning off Riposte (2) which caused a lot of pain amongst players. Characters with easy get out of jail free cards in games are generally unfun to play against and this is a good step into putting him in line with other high movement characters.

### Bebop
oh no.... the like unorthodox broken gun character got nerfs... who would have guessed. He scales slightly worse and his % damage increase got nerfed. I don't think this kills it. I think it no longer becomes the defacto best M1 in the game but an option you can play. Also Bombbop got buffed by 10 dmg which is kinda big due to how compounding % works but its still y'know... Bombbop. I will say the changes to Bebop are really good. The nerf to his damage without directly attempting to gut it means it becomes a niche pick and or a staple strategy for him without being the obvious dominant thing. It will likely still be the best way to play Bebop but at least he wont be the best in that category.

### Billy
These changes are just insane. Like Billy players are eating so good. His changes does give him more of a defined role by nerfing overall health but buffing his in particular whilst nerfing his damage from his gun. They want him to tank/bruiser more but focus more on the tanking aspect rather than the damage aspect.

### Calico
i genuinely don't know what this change does. I guess late game its better with arctic blast but like... This change makes me think they don't know how to fix Calico. This change technically is good for her gameplan but its just not very valuable compared to her other Ability upgrades. I think that Calico needs more changes than this because this change might do nothing. We traded out a very Niche upgrade into another Niche upgrade. Whats even funnier about this change is they just buffed every item that gave barrier and buffed characters that buy barriers. I don't think they should revert the changes per se but I know this isn't the change we wanted for her

### Celeste
I can't believe they buffed celeste in a teamfight meta. This change feels very unthoughtful. The small nerfs are overshadowed by the upgrade buffs. Her being easier to hit is a good change because of how she tends to fly around the map. Her stamina nerf is probably really big but runs into the you likely still will only catch bad celeste movement players. Her daggers doing more damage and coming back 4 seconds faster is really strong in a meta where people like to be standing in one spot. Also shining wonder getting a damage buff in a meta where people want to stand next to each other is just so good. like we are talking about a 360 damage increase to an ult thats already extremely disruptive in normal circumstances. Like she is just a better mirage. Hard to catch, can be anywhere on the map with movement, auto wins 1v1's with insane damage and sustain, but she has 2 abilities that are really good for teamfights where mirage has 1 and its on a 30 second cooldown and its his escape kit.

### Doorman
I'm being so serious. These changes do nothing at worst and at best is just a buff. Lets break it down. The range nerf is a cosmetic change especially because you get the range back in his T3 upgrade. The Damage scaling nerf makes him do 40 less damage late game. Which is nothing when you consider that Basekit health was nerfed by 10 and Boon scaling was reduced by 3. soooo 115 total. He literally still does the same % of damage per Bell. They either didn't think or didn't check this change. The ONLY reason I can think is that they think Doorman is in a good spot and they don't want him to change. The inaccuracy rework is actually just a buff. Its like not even close. Anyone who has played against Doorman post patch will tell. It went from a 1 Second Disarm to a 4 Second Disarm. Trying to Shoot anything with -40% accuracy at a range that isn't 5 meters is very difficult. He also has Perma Uptime on this debuff bc of his Bell Cooldown. I think the doorway changes are like overhyped of a nerf, for both playstyles. In Bellboy you have to have a more thought out plan when it comes to using your doors as escape tools unless you put it under walker for example bc yknow if they follow you under walker they're likely dead. For Kidnap it like didn't do anything. Like you have to be a bit smart on where you put the door so they cant just walk back out. His door being silencable means you have to be a bit smarter when it comes to how you position yourself as the anti bad positioning character which is a good change overall. I think these changes are either they love the spot he's in but wanna tweak him slightly or they have no idea what they want/how to nerf him meaningfully while keeping his identity.

### Drifter
This change I think is a step in the right direction but ultimately comes short. I think drifter is in a bad spot even though we are in a meta where he should be thriving.Like every other teamfight AOE character is a high value character and yet drifter doesn't get that. This change has one fundamental issue. Its actually just a nerf to him with the only benefit of now having Crushing Fists value. Melee Damage scales at 0.5 Weapon damage and i think making the weapon damage character scale with weapon damage is good but making it scaled with melee damage means it scales at 0.25 *for weapon damage* rather than the 0.4 spirit it used to have. You just end up doing less damage until like 50+ minutes. I don't know what the intention of this change was but fails to address any of his issues of being a feast or famine character. His T3 is only for silence and this change does nothing in regards to that.

## Dynamo
Overall i think these are great changes. some may argue the like. what does the T2 nerf even do but i appreciate them going. This character is very strong in this meta and just purely changing a number to be smaller. Making this Debuff Reducer, Spirit Nuker, AOE Space Controller weaker. These are the kinds of changing I wish more game Dev's were willing to make. Oh and yeah. Nerfing T3 Entanglement is like good. Both good for consistency and mass removing debuffs are generally unhealthy in games.

## Graves
Im happy that she is getting both buffs/nerfs and bug fixes. This is a step in the right direction for the character. This is what i hope most characters would recieve like at least once a month. I know that most of the bug fixes were consistency fixes to make her skulls better but still. Her buffs to movement speed allowing her to slide while sprinting is so good. Also making her spawn only 1 ghoul at base and then add another in T3 actually makes her a playable character. Making her gun scales less makes her role/playstyle/archetype more apparent which is generally a good change.


# Unfortunately Due To Major Depression And Motivation Issues I Did Not Do The Rest Of The Patch. By The Time My Motivation Came Back The June 11th Patch Was Released. So I will be picking up the project at the June 30th patch.

## The Urn
I know the current iteration of the Urn wont make it. Though I have lots of ideas on how to fix this Urn, It would be a slight waste of energy. I'll talk more about potential Urn ideas in Basekit Mechanic Section.
